doc_source/advanced_usage.rst, before:

TMPL Advanced usage
===================

Sequence states
----------------

When a *TestManager* sequence is executed using the *run()* method it creates a loop. Before starting the loop a table of setup conditions is created. Each row of the table represents a combination of setup conditions. Each iteration of the loop is one row of the table. Within this loop there are particular states where *Measurement* classes can be executed. These states are *Startup*, *Setup*, *Main*, *After*, *Teardown* and *Error*. The sequence loop runs in the order below, with the states shown in **bold**.

* Build setup conditions table
* **Startup** : Run anything that needs setting up
* Load first set of conditions from table
    - **Setup** stage
    - For each condition in the set
        + Set condition to current value
        + Run any measurements for this condition
    - **Main** : Run main measurements
    - **After** : Run teardown for current set of conditions
* **Teardown**: Run global teardown measurements, e.g. shutdown, store results
* **Error** : Run when error occurs.

*Measurement* classes can be set to execute in one or more of these states using methods with the prefix *run_*.

* *run_on_startup* : Run before any conditions have been set at the **Startup** state
* *run_on_setup* : Run after a specific condition has been set in the **Setup** state
* *run_on_main* : Run in the main loop. This is the default state and does not need to be explicitly set.
* *run_after*: Run after all main measurements have been executed for one set of conditions.
* *run_on_teardown*: Run at the end of the sequence. This is useful for shutting down.
* *run_on_error*: Run when an error occurs






Sequencing
----------
TODO


Processing
----------
TODO


Customisation
-------------
TODO


Data
-----
Where data is stored across TMPL objects

* *config*: static
* *local_data*: local to measurements and conditions
* *global_data*: available to all measurements and conditions

Commit message:

Updated documentation with markdown generation and others

doc_source/advanced_usage.rst, after:

TMPL Advanced usage
===================

Sequence states
----------------

When a *TestManager* sequence is executed using the *run()* method it creates a loop. Before starting the loop a table of setup conditions is created. Each row of the table represents a combination of setup conditions. Each iteration of the loop is one row of the table. Within this loop there are particular states where *Measurement* classes can be executed. These states are *Startup*, *Setup*, *Main*, *After*, *Teardown* and *Error*. The sequence loop runs in the order below, with the states shown in **bold**.

* Build setup conditions table
* **Startup** : Run anything that needs setting up
* Load first set of conditions from table
    - **Setup** stage
    - For each condition in the set
        + Set condition to current value
        + Run any measurements for this condition
    - **Main** : Run main measurements
    - **After** : Run teardown for current set of conditions
* **Teardown**: Run global teardown measurements, e.g. shutdown, store results
* **Error** : Run when error occurs.

*Measurement* classes can be set to execute in one or more of these states using methods with the prefix *run_*.

* *run_on_startup* : Run before any conditions have been set at the **Startup** state
* *run_on_setup* : Run after a specific condition has been set in the **Setup** state
* *run_on_main* : Run in the main loop. This is the default state and does not need to be explicitly set.
* *run_after*: Run after all main measurements have been executed for one set of conditions.
* *run_on_teardown*: Run at the end of the sequence. This is useful for shutting down.
* *run_on_error*: Run when an error occurs






Sequencing
----------
TODO


Processing
----------
TODO


Customisation
-------------
TODO


Data
-----
TMPL objects have several internal data structures that can be used for static and temporary storage. These are the following:

* *config*: static storage, usually defined in the object's *initialise* method. *config* is intended for configuration settings that are set once per sequence run.
* *local_data*: storage structure local to measurements and conditions. This can be used to store temporary data that is local to a *Measurement* or *SetupCondition*.
* *global_data*: temporary storage available to all measurements and conditions. *global_data* provides a way for different measurements and conditions in a sequence to pass data between each other. It should be used with care because relying on it will make objects less modular.

All of these data structures are objects of the class *ObjDict*. This means they are basically dictionaries. They have all the same methods as a dictionary. The main difference is that the keys can be specified using the dot,'.', notation. Some examples are shown below:

.. code-block:: python

    # Set/get a flag
    test_seq.config.flag = True
    flag = test_seq.config.flag 

    # Change number of averages in a measurement
    test_seq.meas.Current.config.ammeter_averages = 16

    # Set global data in test sequence
    test_seq.global_data.my_name = 'fred'

    # Read back global data in measurement
    name = test_seq.meas.Current.global_data.my_name

    # Set local data in measurement
    test_seq.meas.Current.local_data.timer_count = 1
